README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# bnssg-quarto

This repository provides a quarto template and a project structure to
support BNSSG analytical teams to use R.

## Version number

This template is version 0.0.2.

### Latest updates

- 2024-01-18 added bnssg.pptx powerpoint template for making bnssg
  themed PowerPoints from quarto
- contains an example of alternative text
- contains bnssg theme and colour functions (until they are packaged up
  separately)

## Incorporating the template in a project

Begin the project (“New project”) and create the preferred file and
folder structure. Basic standard structures include a “data” folder (for
non-sensitive input data), an “R” folder (for R scripts).

When ready, follow the instructions in the next section which will
generate your “outputs” folder (or something with a similar name).

## Installation

### Using the Terminal

Before proceeding, make sure your “Terminal” options are correctly set.
To do this go to:

1.  **Tools \> Terminal \> Terminal Options**
2.  Select “New Terminals open with:” **Git Bash** (preferably), but if
    that isn’t an option, select **Windows PowerShell**
3.  Select **OK**
4.  **Tools \> Terminal \> New Terminal**

The template can be installed using the below command in the Terminal
tab in RStudio. A quirk is that you often can’t copy and paste with
Ctrl+V into a terminal, you have to right click and press paste, then
Enter or press Shift+Insert.

``` bash
quarto use template nhs-bnssg-analytics/bnssg-quarto
```

5.  The terminal might then ask if you trust the authors of the template
    press `Y` and `Enter`

6.  The terminal will then ask for a `? Directory name:`, which you
    cannot leave blank. Give a sensible name to the folder you want the
    template files to be downloaded into (like **“outputs”**), and press
    Enter. Files should then download.

7.  Go to the location of your new folder, open `[DirectoryName].qmd` in
    R and that’s your template ready to go! You might need to run
    `install.packages` first on a few packages if they’ve not been
    installed before.

### Using GitHub Desktop

If you are not comfortable with the Terminal, you can follow the steps
using GitHub Dekstop [this
link](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/cloning-a-repository-from-github-to-github-desktop),
which requires having the program [GitHub
Dekstop](https://desktop.github.com/) installed first.

This should get you to step 7. above, where you can copy the files that
have been cloned across to the folder you’re wanting to use the Quarto
template in.

Commit message:

updates bnssg logo to be located above TOC in html rather than in the top right of the document

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# bnssg-quarto

This repository provides a quarto template and a project structure to
support BNSSG analytical teams to use R.

## Version number

This template is version 0.0.3.

### Latest updates

- 2024-04-18 moves the BNSSG logo to above the TOC rather than in the
  top right of the html

- 2024-01-18 added bnssg.pptx powerpoint template for making bnssg
  themed PowerPoints from quarto

- contains an example of alternative text

- contains bnssg theme and colour functions (until they are packaged up
  separately)

## Incorporating the template in a project

Begin the project (“New project”) and create the preferred file and
folder structure. Basic standard structures include a “data” folder (for
non-sensitive input data), an “R” folder (for R scripts).

When ready, follow the instructions in the next section which will
generate your “outputs” folder (or something with a similar name).

## Installation

### Using the Terminal

Before proceeding, make sure your “Terminal” options are correctly set.
To do this go to:

1.  **Tools \> Terminal \> Terminal Options**
2.  Select “New Terminals open with:” **Git Bash** (preferably), but if
    that isn’t an option, select **Windows PowerShell**
3.  Select **OK**
4.  **Tools \> Terminal \> New Terminal**

The template can be installed using the below command in the Terminal
tab in RStudio. A quirk is that you often can’t copy and paste with
Ctrl+V into a terminal, you have to right click and press paste, then
Enter or press Shift+Insert.

``` bash
quarto use template nhs-bnssg-analytics/bnssg-quarto
```

5.  The terminal might then ask if you trust the authors of the template
    press `Y` and `Enter`

6.  The terminal will then ask for a `? Directory name:`, which you
    cannot leave blank. Give a sensible name to the folder you want the
    template files to be downloaded into (like **“outputs”**), and press
    Enter. Files should then download.

7.  Go to the location of your new folder, open `[DirectoryName].qmd` in
    R and that’s your template ready to go! You might need to run
    `install.packages` first on a few packages if they’ve not been
    installed before.

### Using GitHub Desktop

If you are not comfortable with the Terminal, you can follow the steps
using GitHub Dekstop [this
link](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/cloning-a-repository-from-github-to-github-desktop),
which requires having the program [GitHub
Dekstop](https://desktop.github.com/) installed first.

This should get you to step 7. above, where you can copy the files that
have been cloned across to the folder you’re wanting to use the Quarto
template in.
